# NetgearR6900
Flash your Netgear R6900 router with custom firmware

---
## Situation
I bought a Netgear R6900 from Costco a while back and served well as a Wi-Fi router in my 1-bedroom condo. Once I moved to my house, my ISP provided fiber right into my house but only offered a modem/router combo which the service would not work without. Thankfully the wireless on it was decent, dual band AC, with a decent user interface for controlling settings and whatnot. My home was wired with cat5e to the master, living and WAP upstairs with the central hub in the back corner of the basement. Since the modem had to be connected to the fiber-to-Ethernet converter, I couldn't have the modem/router upstairs, otherwise, I would lose the wired hub in the basement. So, the router sits in the back corner of the basement. I used 1 Ethernet port for my living room with an Ethernet switch to connect my TV, Xbox, apple tv, etc. hard-wired. Great! I used another Ethernet port to connect the WAP upstairs extending the Wi-Fi network upstairs to improve signal for wireless devices. Big problem was the other bedroom in the back of the house did not have wired Ethernet and my computer didn't have a Wi-Fi card so I thought, since I have this pretty decent R6900, why not use it as a bridge? Using Netgear's interface was lackluster to say the least, and after I managed to get it set up, after a day or so, the connection would randomly die and I would have to reset my router and start all over again. I knew about customer firmware like DD-WRT and Tomato and wondered if I could install it on here and have more control. Sadly, they only had custom firmware for the R7000, the non-Costco version. trying to install any custom firmware on the R6900 proved futile. Reading up on this, the differences between the R6900 vs R7000 seemed to be artificial imposed rather than technically limited. Not sure why they would do this but here we are… I found a few resources I will link below, but the information was scattered and things like “look up how to do it, there’s ton of info” is hardly a good enough answer when you just want a step-by-step guide to getting something done. So, I thought I’d dedicate some time to write this guide and save someone else some time and swear-words and potentially money. You’re welcome!